README.md, before:

# MCJC Oral History Trust Website (From the Rock Wall)

based on Omeka version 3.x

## Local set-up

- Run `yarn install` to install prettier locally (needed only for code formatting; if you have a global install of prettier you can use that instead).
- Install docker-sync by running `gem install docker-sync`.
- Run `make prepare-site`. This will copy each of the the example config files into a new file without the `.example` extension.
- Put a most recent DB dump SQL file in the `db` directory -- database container will automatically load whatever `.sql` file is in this directory
  - Command to dump database is: `mysqldump <DB_NAME> --user <DB_USER> --password > ~/db-dump-<DATE>.sql --no-tablespaces`
  - Be sure to check `db.ini` that database prefix matches what it was on server where you exported DB dump!
- Optional: Put a version of the files directory in `htdocs/files`
- Run `make up`
- To persist DB, run `make export-db` (this will create a new `db-dump.sql` based on the current state of the database)
- Visit http://0.0.0.0 in your browser to view the site. You can also add a hosts file config mapping a different URL
  to this IP address, for example: `0.0.0.0 mcjc-omeka.l`.
- You may need to reset the admin password, which can be done by running `docker-compose exec db sh -c 'exec mysql -uroot -proot omeka -e "UPDATE omeka_users SET password=sha1(concat(salt, \'password\')) WHERE username=\'adminmcjc\';"'` from the command line.
- After running that command, the admin user will be `adminmcjc` with password `password`.

### Refreshing local database

From time-to-time, you may need to refresh the local database. To do this, first run `make down` to stop
and remove the docker DB containers. Then run `docker volume rm mcjc_omeka_mysql-data` to remove the persistent
DB data store. When you next run `make up` the site should re-load whatever database dump is in the `db` directory.

### Rebuilding or modifying docker image

The current docker-compose file pulls two pre-built images from Docker hub, which are built
from Docker files in the .docker directory (one for the Compass container, one for Apache container).

To rebuild the apache image and push a new one to the repository, run `docker build . -t timstallmann/apache-omeka:latest`
and then `docker push timstallmann/apache-omeka:latest`.

To use a locally built customized apache image, comment out the `image` line under the `web` service in `docker-compose.yml` and
uncomment the `build` line.

To rebuild the Sass image, run `docker build ./htdocs -f .docker/DartSass.Dockerfile -t timstallmann/dart-sass-omeka:latest` and
then `docker push timstallmann/dart-sass-omeka:latest`.

## Required plug-ins

The following plugins are required:

- Archive Repertory
- Clean Url - using a schema of `/collections/collection-identifier/item-identifier`
- COinS
- Contribution
- CSVExport
- CSV Import
- Derivative Images
- Element Types
- Exhibit Builder
- Guest User
- HTML5 Media
- Item Relations
- Simple Pages
- Simple Vocab
- Taxonomy

## Modified plug-ins

The following manual changes have been made to plugin code:

- Guest User -- comment out two lines to remove header bar (see https://omeka.org/classic/docs/Plugins/GuestUser/)

## Custom plug-ins

The `MCJCDeployment` plug-in serves as an all-purpose container for overrides and database migrations, and also enables Rollbar error notifications.
Some of the migrations tweak aspects of the default Omeka field set-up, so if you're starting a fresh install of this codebase
you'll need to force the migrations to run by manually setting the `MCJCDeployment` version number to `2.1.0`.

The plugin also provides a few custom view handlers and overrides which are needed for the `berlin_mcjc` theme to function; these are:

- `ExhibitAttachment.php` - completely copies the `plugins/ExhibitBuilder/helpers/ExhibitAttachment.php` code except for forcing the `$forceImage` parameter to always have a value of `false` so that in-line HTML5 players display on exhibit pages.
  This view handler overrides the `ExhibitBuilder` one purely by virtue of the fact that the Zend view handler stack is last-in, first-out, so the `MCJCDeployment` plugin views handler directory is searched before `ExhibitBuilder`.
- `McjcFileMarkup.php` - copies the default file markup handler except for customizing the behavior of tape log, transcript, and abstract PDFs. This handler is called explicitly in the `berlin_mcjc` theme code.

## Rollbar error handling

The MCJCDeployment plugin provides Rollbar error notification functionality by default; in order for this to work the option `log.rollbar_access_token` needs to be set to
a valid access token inside `application/config.ini`.

## Berlin_mcjc theme

The MCJC Oral History Trust website uses the Berlin MCJC theme.

### Custom theme functions

The theme `custom.php` contains a number of custom functions which are used in the theme templates. Functions are documented in-line and generally prefixed with `mcjc_`.
Some of these functions largely copy code from the Omeka core functions, so if errors appear after the Omeka version is updated check here to see if the core function code changes need to be propagated.

### Working with SCSS

SCSS files are located in `css/sass/`. To avoid editing Berlin base theme SCSS
files, we have added custom SCSS partials that mimic the style of the base theme
files.

Styles for all screen sizes are located in `_screen` and `_screen-custom`.
Styles for screens at 768px and smaller are located in `_768max` and
`_768max-custom`. Custom variables are located in `_base-custom`.

The `docker-compose` file contains configuration for running Compass in a container
automatically on local dev. See readme in the `berlin_mcjc` theme directory for manual info.
Production compass config is located in `themes/berlin_mcjc/config.rb`.

### Template files

Omeka template files can be customized by copying them to the corresponding
directory within the theme. For example, to customize
`htdocs/application/views/scripts/items/show.php`, copy the file into
`htdocs/themes/berlin_mcjc/items`. The file located in the theme will
override the original.

### JavaScript

The [Lity](https://sorgalla.com/lity/) library is used to enable lightbox
overlays for image files. Lity was used in place of Lightbox because Lightbox
does not support PDFs. The library is included on item show pages via the
custom template located in `items/show.php` (relative to the theme).

## Deployment

The `.circleci/config.yml` file currently auto-deploys develop branch to [staging](https://staging.fromtherockwall.org)
and production to [fromtherockwall.org](https://fromtherockwall.org).

## Modified omeka core code.

After updating Omeka, check that the following modifications are still present:

- [Add pagination data to collections->showAction](https://github.com/omeka/Omeka/pull/939)
- Custom MCJC theme located in admin/themes folder. All this does is implement the contents of [this PR](https://github.com/omeka/Omeka/pull/940), so once that is merged the custom theme can be removed.

Commit message:

Styling fix, switch to ddev

README.md, after:

# MCJC Oral History Trust Website (From the Rock Wall)

based on Omeka version 3.x

## Local set-up

- Run `yarn install` to install prettier locally (needed only for code formatting; if you have a global install of prettier you can use that instead).
- Install ddev.
- Run `make prepare-site`. This will copy each of the the example config files into a new file without the `.example` extension.
- Put a most recent DB dump SQL file in the `db` directory
  - Command to dump database is: `mysqldump <DB_NAME> --user <DB_USER> --password > ~/db-dump-<DATE>.sql --no-tablespaces`
  - Import database by running `ddev import-db --src=<db-dump>`
  - Be sure to check `db.ini` that database prefix matches what it was on server where you exported DB dump!
- Optional: Put a version of the files directory in `htdocs/files`
- Run `ddev start`
- Visit https://from-the-rock-wall.ddev.site in your browser to view the site.
- You may need to reset the admin password, which can be done by running `UPDATE omeka_users SET password=sha1(concat(salt, \'password\')) WHERE username=\'adminmcjc\';` within a SQL console.
- After running that command, the admin user will be `adminmcjc` with password `password`.

## Building sass

Run `yarn run watch` to watch sass build locally.

## Required plug-ins

The following plugins are required:

- Archive Repertory
- Clean Url - using a schema of `/collections/collection-identifier/item-identifier`
- COinS
- Contribution
- CSVExport
- CSV Import
- Derivative Images
- Element Types
- Exhibit Builder
- Guest User
- HTML5 Media
- Item Relations
- Simple Pages
- Simple Vocab
- Taxonomy

## Modified plug-ins

The following manual changes have been made to plugin code:

- Guest User -- comment out two lines to remove header bar (see https://omeka.org/classic/docs/Plugins/GuestUser/)

## Custom plug-ins

The `MCJCDeployment` plug-in serves as an all-purpose container for overrides and database migrations, and also enables Rollbar error notifications.
Some of the migrations tweak aspects of the default Omeka field set-up, so if you're starting a fresh install of this codebase
you'll need to force the migrations to run by manually setting the `MCJCDeployment` version number to `2.1.0`.

The plugin also provides a few custom view handlers and overrides which are needed for the `berlin_mcjc` theme to function; these are:

- `ExhibitAttachment.php` - completely copies the `plugins/ExhibitBuilder/helpers/ExhibitAttachment.php` code except for forcing the `$forceImage` parameter to always have a value of `false` so that in-line HTML5 players display on exhibit pages.
  This view handler overrides the `ExhibitBuilder` one purely by virtue of the fact that the Zend view handler stack is last-in, first-out, so the `MCJCDeployment` plugin views handler directory is searched before `ExhibitBuilder`.
- `McjcFileMarkup.php` - copies the default file markup handler except for customizing the behavior of tape log, transcript, and abstract PDFs. This handler is called explicitly in the `berlin_mcjc` theme code.

## Rollbar error handling

The MCJCDeployment plugin provides Rollbar error notification functionality by default; in order for this to work the option `log.rollbar_access_token` needs to be set to
a valid access token inside `application/config.ini`.

## Berlin_mcjc theme

The MCJC Oral History Trust website uses the Berlin MCJC theme.

### Custom theme functions

The theme `custom.php` contains a number of custom functions which are used in the theme templates. Functions are documented in-line and generally prefixed with `mcjc_`.
Some of these functions largely copy code from the Omeka core functions, so if errors appear after the Omeka version is updated check here to see if the core function code changes need to be propagated.

### Working with SCSS

SCSS files are located in `css/sass/`. To avoid editing Berlin base theme SCSS
files, we have added custom SCSS partials that mimic the style of the base theme
files.

Styles for all screen sizes are located in `_screen` and `_screen-custom`.
Styles for screens at 768px and smaller are located in `_768max` and
`_768max-custom`. Custom variables are located in `_base-custom`.

The `docker-compose` file contains configuration for running Compass in a container
automatically on local dev. See readme in the `berlin_mcjc` theme directory for manual info.
Production compass config is located in `themes/berlin_mcjc/config.rb`.

### Template files

Omeka template files can be customized by copying them to the corresponding
directory within the theme. For example, to customize
`htdocs/application/views/scripts/items/show.php`, copy the file into
`htdocs/themes/berlin_mcjc/items`. The file located in the theme will
override the original.

### JavaScript

The [Lity](https://sorgalla.com/lity/) library is used to enable lightbox
overlays for image files. Lity was used in place of Lightbox because Lightbox
does not support PDFs. The library is included on item show pages via the
custom template located in `items/show.php` (relative to the theme).

## Deployment

The `.circleci/config.yml` file currently auto-deploys develop branch to [staging](https://staging.fromtherockwall.org)
and production to [fromtherockwall.org](https://fromtherockwall.org).

## Modified omeka core code.

After updating Omeka, check that the following modifications are still present:

- [Add pagination data to collections->showAction](https://github.com/omeka/Omeka/pull/939)
- Custom MCJC theme located in admin/themes folder. All this does is implement the contents of [this PR](https://github.com/omeka/Omeka/pull/940), so once that is merged the custom theme can be removed.
